# 英语单词 301-400

1. nuisance  
	麻烦事 讨厌的人 ； 
	> But for most people in Beijing, including the police, it was simply a nuisance.
2. vigilant  
	警惕的 警觉的 谨慎； 
	> The command undoubtedly came from the top: some bureau told a lower-level bureau to be vigilant, and then the word filtered down through the layered bureaucracy. Eventually, it reached the neighborhood cops, who dutifully performed the sweeps.
3. attuned 
	(非attun的过去时） 熟悉 适应 习惯 ； 
	> Of course, any news reporter became particularly attuned to the city’s calendar.
4. overlap  
	物体部分重叠 交叠；
5. lurch  
	突然前倾 ； 
	> The days didn’t overlap; the calendar lurched along without creating any kind of narrative.
6. dismount  
	下（马 自行车 摩托车）  
	> Silence. I dismount and walk through the crowd, hoping to find somebody who will talk.
7. sedan  
	小轿车 ； 
	> We talk briefly, and then a black sedan pulls up to the curb.
8. tint  
	为 轻微染色 ； 
	> The windows are heavily tinted; one of them rolls down.
9. torment  
	使备受折磨 使痛苦 ； 
	> Two years later, Deng Xiaoping initiated the reform period, and once more China was faced with the spiritual vacuum that had tormented the nation since the nineteenth century.
10. tantamount  
	等于 ； 
	> These systems were never described as “religious”—any attempt to declare a new faith would have been tantamount to challenging the Party.
11. terminology  
	术语 ； 
	> and many of Falun Gong’s symbols and terminology were Buddhist or Taoist in origin.  （ 2021-04-08 Oracle Bones ）
12. fanatic 
	入迷者 极端分子 狂热信徒 ； 
	> The men impressed me as harmless fanatics—I was annoyed by the early-morning phone calls, but the believers were always polite.
13. unflattering  
	贬损的 有损形象的 不恭维的 ；
14. retraction  
	撤销 收回 ； 
	> A pattern emerged: if an article was unflattering, Falun Gong practitioners would organize a peaceful protest at the media outlet and demand a retraction.
15. stir  stirring stirred 
	搅动 搅和 搅拌 ； 
	> Many of the publications were lower-level ones, and they found it easier to back down rather than risk being blamed for stirring up trouble.
16. disperse  
	使 分散 散开 疏散； 
	> the station quickly aired another program that was sympathetic to Falun Gong. The demonstrators dispersed.
17. discourse  
	论文 演讲 ； 
	> Beijing newspapers didn’t publish a word about the protest; nothing appeared on the television news. There was no debate, no public discourse, no commentary of any sort. For weeks the city waited.
18. shrill  
	刺耳的 尖利的 ； 
	> the Communists stepped up the attack, initiating a shrill public campaign that declared Falun Gong an “evil cult.”
19. unfurl  
	（使卷紧的东西）打开 展开 ； 
	> Often they traveled to Tiananmen Square, where they unfurled banners, sat in the lotus position, or raised their arms over their heads—the starting point for Falun Gong exercises.
20. furl 
	卷起 收拢 （帆 旗 伞）
21. stake out 
	警察监视 ； 
	> Plainclothes cops staked out the square.
22. custody  
	（尤其在候审时的）拘留 拘押 ； 
	> Soon, Hong Kong-based human rights groups began to report incidents of practitioners beaten to death while in police custody.
23. nab  
	捉住 当场逮捕 ； 
	> a plainclothes officer nabbed Chen before she had even made it to the Square.
24. brutal 
	残暴的 兽性的 ； 
	> What started at the top as an idea—ban Falun Gong—materialized at the lowest levels as sheer brutality, for the stupidest, most pragmatic reason of all: money.  （ 2021-04-09 ）
25. grit  
	沙粒 细沙 ； 
	> Beijing is in the midst of a spring sandstorm, one of those heavy-lidded days when the grit blows south from the Gobi.
26. linger  流连 徘徊 花很长时间做某事 ；
27. loiter  闲荡 徘徊 ； Their clothes are bad, and they are bad at plainclothes: they linger and loiter; they stand and stare.
28. infiltrate  浸润 渗透 ； these men have not been well trained, but their job is to intimidate, not infiltrate.
29. camouflage  军事上的 伪装、迷彩； I slip in with an American tour group. It’s good camouflage—most of the men, like me, wear baseball caps.
30. flagpole  旗杆 ；We gather around the young Chinese guide, who leads us to the flagpole at the north end of the Square.
31. van  小货车  面包车 ； By the time they force the man to his feet, a van is already speeding toward us from a far corner of the Square.
32. limb  四肢；
33. slack  松弛的 ； His limbs go slack; they carry him into the van.

	1. The city also announced harsh punishment for six officials, including the director of the local health commission, for their "slack response and ineffective management" of the latest outbreak, the state-run Global Times reported Sunday.
34. commotion  突然发生的 喧闹 骚乱 ； Suddenly, there is a commotion at the flagpole.
35. ribbon  （用于捆绑或装饰的）带子 丝带； The girl wears a green sweater, with matching ribbons in her hair. （ 2021-04-12 ）
36. make sense of sth  理解 弄懂  ； Back in the bureau, I filed foreign reports of the protests, and I wrote stories of my own. But I couldn’t make sense of it—neither the anniversary nor the scenes on the Square.
37. infraction  犯规  违法； Virtually every Chinese citizen whom I came to know well was doing something technically illegal, although usually the infraction was so minor that they didn’t have to worry.
38. sketchy   粗略的 不完备的 ； It might be a sketchy apartment registration or a small business that bought its products from unlicensed wholesalers.
39. guerillas   游击队 ； They were guerillas walking toy dogs.
40. auspices  在   帮助（或支持  保护）下 ； They asked me to visit some archaeological sites in China, but I had to do so under official auspices, via a short-term journalist visa.
41. whimsy  怪念头 古怪可笑的举动 ； organized according to some system that was far more whimsical than the alphabet.
42. stringer 特约记者 ； They wanted a Beijing stringer; there wasn’t any salary or even a stipend, but the newspaper would sponsor my accreditation, as long as I arranged the necessary materials.   （ 2021-04-13 ）
43. commensurate  （在大小 重要性 质量等方面）相称的 相当的 ； This document certifies that Peter Hessler is a fully-qualified journalist whose experience is commensurate with the demands of working as a foreign correspondent…
44. chop  劈砍， 官印 ； Ian signed the forms and stamped them with an official chop.
45. dazzle （强光等 ）使目眩 使眼花； He was bright, but not so bright that he couldn’t be dazzled by Reform and Opening:
46. sentimentality  感伤情调 多愁善感； That was another dramatic change that had resulted from China’s economic reforms, but the truth was that I already missed the old days. In Beijing, sentimentality was often just a year away.
47. pin  胸针 徽章；
48. lapel  （西服外衣或夹克上部）翻领；“I like that pin,” he said, pointing to an image of Kim Il Sung on one of the men’s lapels.
49. authentic  真正的 真实的 ； When he explained the plan, he emphasized that, technically, the documentation was not jiade. The papers themselves were completely authentic;
50. fictitious  虚构的 虚拟的 ； The Cultural Exchange Company had a contact in Los Angeles, who composed a letterhead for a fictitious company and prepared an invitation.
51. grill  烧烤 炙烤； The day before the visa interview at the U.S. embassy, the consultant grilled Polat for five hours, to make sure he had his story straight.  （ 2021-04-14 ）
52. excavate  挖掘 开采 ； During the twentieth century, this region became the most carefully excavated in China.
53. malaria  疟疾  ；
54. decay  腐烂 衰败 ； The quest began with disease: a sick man, a sick nation. In 1899, in Beijing, a relative of Wang Yirong became ill with malaria, and a doctor prescribed a traditional Chinese medicine whose ingredients included “decayed tortoise shell.”
55. grind  研磨 磨碎  ； Before grinding up the object, somebody noticed that it was inscribed with characters that resembled ancient Chinese writing.
56. bronze  青铜 ； They showed it to Wang Yirong, who was a Qing government official, a director of the Imperial Academy, and an expert in ancient bronze inscriptions.
57. apocryphal  流传甚广但不足为凭的 虚构的 ；Nowadays, many historians believe that this tale of malaria is apocryphal,
58. uncanny  不可思议的 异乎寻常的 ； The artifacts had uncanny timing.
59. concession  让步妥协； （尤指由政府或雇主给予的）特许权 优惠； The Germans took mining rights; the French took railroad concessions.
60. renounce  声明放弃 ；
61. outright  完全的 彻底的；The Americans renounced outright imperialism, and their Open Door Policy sounded protective of China,  but in practice it meant more of the same.
62. ragtag  一群人或某组织 组织涣散的 给人印象差的 ；

	1. So, he crossed the border, and joined up with the Azov Battalion -- then a ragtag militia 民兵组织 of Ukraine's most hardcore fighters, many of whom were ultra-nationalists, and white supremacists.   
63. band   帮伙；
64. Righteousness 正义的 正当的 ； By the end of the nineteenth century, anti-foreign anger in Shandong province had inspired ragtag bands of peasants and laborers who called themselves the Boxers United in Righteousness.
65. resent  愤恨 ；  The uprising spread across the country, and the Qing government made halfhearted attempts to put it down, but secretly many leaders were pleased by the popular resentment.  （ 2021-04-15 ）
66. besiege  围困 包围； In the capital, mobs besieged foreigners who had retreated into churches and embassy compounds.
67. humiliation  屈辱 羞辱 ； But for Wang Yirong, flight was not an option, and neither was humiliation.
68. perishable  易腐烂的 易变质的 ； Rainwater passes easily through the dry soil, and perishable materials don’t last long in a place like anyang。
69. antiquity   古物 古董 ； And he was a great collector of antiquities, which is one reason why he acquired Wang Yirong’s oracle bones.
70. millet  谷子 小米； But also like Wang Yirong, Liu E had bad luck when it came to foreigners and politics. Later that decade, he was punished for illegally selling government-stored millet to foreigners.
71. Siberia  西伯利亚 ；
72. trump sth up , 诬陷 捏造 ； The charges were trumped-up, and in 1908, he was exiled to Xinjiang—China’s Siberia,
73. distill  蒸馏 提取 吸取。。精华 ； A CURSE SEEMED to travel with the oracle bones; or perhaps the artifacts merely distilled a curse that had settled onto imperial China.
74. indemnity  赔偿 ； After the foreigners put down the uprising, the Qing government was forced to apologize and pay indemnities, and they finally began to institute significant modern reforms.
75. entourage   随行人员 随从 ； In January of 1906, he arrived in San Francisco with an entourage of sixty, as well as 750 pieces of luggage,
76. exempt  豁免 ； In the United States, racist exclusion laws prevented Chinese from entering the country, but President Theodore Roosevelt declared the Qing party exempt.  （ 2021-04-16 ）
77. penitentiary  监狱 ； He stopped in Nebraska to see the state penitentiary.
78. bandit  土匪 草寇；
79. ransom   赎金 ； The story spread, and finally, in 1926, a group of bandits captured Zhang and held him for ransom.
80. suffocate  使 窒息死亡； 把 闷死； At the turn of the century, the culture suddenly felt suffocating, and radicals proposed doing away with almost everything traditional. 
81. abdication  退位 ； This vision was shared by Puyi, the last emperor, who, after his abdication, had remained inside the Forbidden City.
82. vermillion  朱红色的； Within the vermillion walls, life functioned as if nothing had changed.
83. assassinate  暗杀 行刺 ； That same year, the Japanese assassinated a northern warlord, as part of their campaign to establish military control in Manchuria.
84. ivory  象牙 ； Archaeologists in Anyang excavate carved ivories, animal bones, and inscribed turtle shells.
85. muster 聚集 激起（支持 勇气 等）In 1935, the Anyang expedition musters the largest work crew in the short history of Chinese archaeology:
86. foreshadow  预示 预兆；In a sense, it foreshadows what will happen three thousand years later, when Beijing is ruled by the Communists: a constant accumulation of sensitive days.  （  2021-04-19  ）
87. hone  磨练 训练（尤指技艺）  There is a sense that these rituals have become well honed over the generations.
88. mantra  咒语 ； In the next ten days there will be no disasters. This particular statement is repeated over and over, like a mantra.
89. suite  套房 套间 ；In the jewelry factory, she shared a dormitory suite with four other women, and all of them sat together on Emily’s bed, their attention tuned to a single radio.
90. lodge  小屋 ； Because they were secretaries, they received better lodging than the assembly-line workers, who were housed ten to a room.
91. oblique  间接的 不直截了当的 拐弯抹角的 ； She rarely spoke about her personal life, and when she did, her comments tended to be oblique.
92. cant  （尤指有关道德或 宗教的）伪善言辞 空话 ； I hate political cant because I used to believe in it.
93. willful   任性的 肆意妄为的 ； To the parents, Emily and her sister often seemed willful.
94. loath  不情愿 不乐意 勉强 ； for a spell, he was intrigued by Falun Gong. He often remarked that he loathed the concept of money.
95. infallible  永无过失的 一贯正确的 ； Whenever Emily talked about moral issues, she invoked Hu Xiaomei’s advice as if it were infallible.
96. prep  预备 ； I contacted the radio station and arranged for an interview. Emily carefully prepped me, describing the most interesting callers, the ones who had touched her deeply in the dormitory.
97. petite  纤弱的 娇小的 ； THE RADIO SHOW host was petite, with small features and long black hair.
98. introvert  内向的人 不喜欢与人交往的人 ； I was always introverted. I used to talk to myself and pretend that I was on the radio. There were a lot of things that I wanted to say if I got the chance.

	1. Although a self-confessed introvert, Tsai is a passionate defender of her island and a fierce advocate for her people.
99. inhale  吸入 吸气 ； She lit another Superslim and inhaled deeply.
100. amiable  和蔼可亲的 亲切友好的 ； It seems you understand me more than most of my friends do—I’m just a good tempered or amiable girl in their eyes.
101. clown  小丑 （尤指为逗人笑而故意）做出蠢相； For the most part, the male students were less mature, and even the brightest ones enjoyed clowning around or making crude jokes.   （ 2021-04-20 ）
