# 英语单词  401-500

1. solitude   
	独处 独居 ； 
	> Emily had always been well liked by her classmates—she was popular despite her sense of solitude.
2. pedestrian   
	行人 步行者 ；
3. overpass 
	立交桥 ； 
	> In downtown Shenzhen, on street corners and pedestrian overpasses, vendors sold black-market versions.
4. royalty  
	王室成员 ； 版税；
5. purge  
	清除 清洗 ； 净化 洗涤 ； 
	> After her royalties had been cut off, she turned her novel into a popular television series, purging the most sensitive material.
6. hip 
	臀部 ； （衣服 音乐）时髦的 ； 
	> Like many hip young Chinese, Miao believed that blood type helped determine character.
7. notorious  
	声名狼藉的 臭名昭著的 ；
8. gallantly  
	（尤指在困境中）勇敢的 英勇的； 
	> When I asked about Shenzhen’s notorious hostess bars, she introduced me to her current boyfriend, who gallantly spent an evening escorting me to various establishments where, for a few hundred yuan, men could rent a private room, sing karaoke, and hire young women in miniskirts to chat, pour drinks, and place fruit directly into their mouths.
9. turmoil  
	动荡 ； 
	>  Everybody in the book is in turmoil—they can’t find calmness.”
10. laminate  
	薄片制成的材料 层压；
11. topless  
	上身 裸露的 不穿上装的 ；
12. make out  
	亲吻抚摸（某人） （与某人）性交；
	> One bedroom featured a laminated poster of a topless foreign couple making out.
13. tenant  
	房客 租户； 
	> A previous tenant had left the poster, and nobody had bothered to take it down.  （ 2021-04-21 ）
14. indiscretion  
	不慎的言行 （尤指道德上的）不检点的言行 ； 
	> Emily warned the girl about the boss, telling stories about his indiscretions, and finally the man confronted Emily.
15. laugh off  
	一笑置之 付之一笑 ； 
	> He tried to laugh it off, but it was clear that he no longer liked having Emily around.
16. porous  
	多孔的 透水的 透气的 ； 
	> Some divides, though, were as artificial and as porous as the fence itself.
17. egalitarianism  
	主张人人平等的 平等主义的 ； 
	> Even in America, which prided itself on egalitarianism, there were old families, old schools, old ways to succeed.
18. murky  
	浑浊的 污浊的 ； 隐晦的 含糊的 ； 
	> success was a murky concept.
19. impostor  
	冒名顶替者 冒名行骗者 ； 
	> The climate was perfect for impostors—even a politically sensitive city such as Beijing had plenty of bogus ID dealers.
20. downplay  
	淡化 对。。轻描淡写 ； 
	> Reportedly, an internal Communist Party directive had called for officials to downplay the anniversary.
21. solicitude  
	牵挂 关怀 关切 ； 
	> The top headline read, in huge characters TREMENDOUS SOLICITUDE, GREAT EXPERIMENT
22. proclamation  
	宣言 公告 声明 ； 
	> The front page featured a reproduction of Deng Xiaoping’s calligraphy, as well as a long proclamation from Jiang Zemin,
23. thermo- 
	热的
24. thermos 
	保温瓶 ； Thermos 膳魔师 ； 
	> The new product was a metal thermos. 
25. XX
	> They never argue and they enjoy spending time together = They get on very well .   'Get on (well) with sb' = have a good relationship with sb （ 2021-04-22 ）
26. accessory   
	附件 配件 附属物； 
	>  and there was one computer accessory factory whose top story had been gutted in a recent fire.
27. blaze  
	烈火 火灾 ； 
	> Emily said that nobody had been hurt in that fire, but down the road there was another plant where, a few years ago, some workers had died in a massive blaze.
28. bangs  
	刘海儿， 额前短发；
29. barrette  
	小发夹 ； 
	> She kept her hair short now, her bangs pinned back with plastic barrettes.
30. strain 
	尽力 竭力； 
	> The volume control on the radio was broken, and Hu Xiaomei’s voice crackled thinly in the night air. We strained to hear.
	使 达到极限； 使 不堪承受； 
	> The central bank warned that given the size of China's economy and financial system, and its global ties, "financial stresses in China could strain global financial markets through a deterioration of risk sentiment, pose risks to global economic growth, and affect the United States."
31. illuminate  照明 照亮 ； Sometimes, a row of windows along a floor suddenly became dark, or an entire building of illuminated squares shut off at once.
32. go out （火或灯光）熄灭；It was never a matter of individual lights going out.
33. infidelity  （夫妻或伴侣间）不忠行为 通奸； When Hu Xiaomei pressed her to explain the infidelity, the woman asked if the host had read Miao Yong’s novel.
34. snap  （使咔嚓）断裂 绷断； and then, down below, the last factory lights snapped off. The landscape disappeared into darkness.

	1. 形容词，匆忙的；仓促的； That was until this year, when a single confirmed case sent the park, and its adjacent shopping district, Disneytown, into a snap lockdown Sunday evening.
35. solitary  孤单的 孤零零的 ； But I had seen Shenzhen’s fragmentation—the walled city, the walled factories, the solitary people far from home （ 2021-04-23 ）
36. slash （用利器）砍 劈  Lateef Ullah Khan, one of the first to arrive at the two-story family home on April 15, 2008, found villager Shabnam lying unconscious on the floor near her father, Shaukat Ali, whose neck was slashed.
37. splatter  （大滴的液体）啪嗒啪嗒的落下 ； The bodies of Shabnam's two brothers, her mother, sister-in-law and 14-year-old cousin lay almost beheaded in a blood-splattered room, court documents showed.
38. nephew  外甥 侄子；
39. strangle  扼死 勒死 掐死 ；  Her baby nephew, who they would later discover had been strangled to death, appeared to be asleep between his parents' bodies.
40. loom  赫然耸现 ； 显得突出 逼近 ；But with her execution looming, Shabnam's legal team is trying to halt it -- and is arguing that she is a victim, too.
41. patriarchal  男人统治的 男性主宰的 ；Lawyer Shreya Rastogi says her client, who has never admitted to the crime, is a casualty of a patriarchal society that puts caste above all else.
42. tip off  举报 ；   Before the killings, Lal Mohammad, the father of Shabnam's deceased sister-in-law Anjum, tipped off police about the couple's relationship.
43. haram  伊斯兰教教法所禁止的； In his ruling, the district court judge SAA Husaini observed that locals "would not have been able to accept the 'haram' (illegitimate) act," referring to their unborn child.
44. prosecute  起诉 控告 ； The prosecution said she did, and that partly motivated the murders.
45. heiress  女继承人 ； They argued Shabnam wanted to kill her family so she would be the sole heiress of their property and could live in comfort with Saleem and their newborn.
46. lace  给饮料掺少量的酒 药 毒药等 ；
47. sedative  镇定药；迷药； On April 14, 2008, Shabnam laced her family's evening drinks with a sedative Saleem bought with the help of a fruit seller, the court found.
48. evade  逃脱 躲避 ； The court heard Saleem had hoped Ahmad's connections would help him evade punishment.

	1. The Russians using emojis to evade censors
49. retrieve  取回 索回 ；
50. blood-stained 血迹斑斑的； After the police arrested him, Saleem retrieved a blood-stained ax from a pond that was consistent with the murder weapon.
51. hoodlum  暴徒； Shabnam initially claimed some hoodlums had entered their home and committed the crime, but police dismissed the theory because of the impossibility of them having scaled the high roof.
52. forensic  法医的 ； The home's iron door had been locked from inside, and there were no fingerprints or other evidence suggesting the presence of unidentified assailants, according to testimony from forensic official Manveer Singh.
53. feign  假装 ；
54. mutilate  使残废 使残缺不全；
55. callously 冷酷无情的 麻木不仁的 ；
56. insinuate  暗示 暗指 ； However, the Supreme Court noted in its 2015 judgment that Shabnam had "feigned unconsciousness and laid by the side of the deceased father's mutilated body, to callously insinuate that the crime had been committed by an outsider."     （  2021-04-26  CNN ）
57. stigma  耻辱 ； The boy's foster father requested that CNN use his nickname, as he has to deal with the social stigma of being the son of convicted murderers.
58. barrecks  营房 兵房 ；
59. inmate  同住者 同院病人 同狱犯人 ； Shabnam raised Bittu in a women's prison, where she shared barracks with other inmates
60. dote   溺爱 ；In prison, Shabnam doted on her son, said her lawyer Rastogi.
61. custody 拘留 监禁；  监护； In 2015, when Bittu was six, they  took custody of the child and are raising him as their own.
62. for the sake of  为获得（或保持）某物 ； For the sake of Bittu, Saifi and his wife have joined the fight for Shabnam to be taken off death row.
63. sip  一小口； 小口喝； Her brother, sister-in-law, cousin, no one suspected, but Shabnam knew that the last sip of this tea would be the last sip of their lives.
64. demonize  把  妖魔化 ；
65. commute  通勤 ； 减轻（处罚 判决）； But Rastogi believes Shabnam has been unfairly demonized and her death penalty should be commuted
66. entrenched  确立的 固有的 顽固的 ；Her view is backed by research from the Cornell Law School's Center on the Death Penalty Worldwide that found women who violate entrenched norms of gender behavior are more likely to receive the death penalty.
67. femme （同性恋者）女人气的 脂粉气的 ； femme fatale 红颜祸水；  Its 2018 report, "Judged More Than Her Crime," found women facing the death penalty were cast as the "femme fatale," the "child murderer," or the "witch."   （ 2021-04-27 ）
68. contest  比赛 争夺； 辩驳 质疑；
69. proportionate  相称的； Shabnam and Saleem contested the death sentence, however the Supreme Court held that the punishment was proportionate
70. warrant  授权令 许可令 ； Death warrants were issued in May 2015 -- under Indian law, these need to be issued a minimum of two weeks before the execution.
71. confer  授予 赋予 ；
72. rehabilitation  改过自新  ； According to Rastogi, as per case law, when conferring a death sentence a court must look at the criminal beyond the crime, to see whether there exists a possibility of reformation and rehabilitation
73. hangman  执行绞刑的刽子手 ； Shabnam's death sentence made headlines again in February after one of the last remaining hangmen in India visited Mathura Jail, the only one in the country with a hanging house for women.
74. moratorium  暂停 ； Since it was introduced in 2007, support for a United Nations resolution for a global moratorium on the death penalty has grown from 104 countries to 123 in 2020
75. impending  即将到来的 ； 临近的 ；
76. cuisive  草书的； In February, after rumors of Shabnam's impending hanging made headlines, Bittu held up a blackboard to reporters with a chalk message written in neat, cursive writing.  （ 2021-04-28 ）
77. drawn  （因身体不适 疲倦或忧虑）憔悴的 苍白的 ； He was smoking heavily now, Hilton after Hilton, and his face was drawn.
78. stake 赌注 ； Often, it sounded like he was preparing for a game with obscure rules and frighteningly high stakes.
79. expedite  加快 加速 ； If an individual requested political asylum at a U.S. airport, he could be placed in “expedited removal,” a process that determined whether his application was credible.
80. shiny  光亮的  反光的 ； The suit was dark blue, cheaply tailored, and shiny with use. It made him look exactly like a Uighur money changer.
81. tactful  圆通的 得体的 不得罪人的 ； “Do you have another one?” I said, as tactfully as possible.
82. solicitous  操心的 关切的 ； It was the first time I had ever seen Polat with a woman, and he was solicitous, taking her hand at dinner. She looked even more nervous than he did.  （  名词 solicitude）
83. bleak  不乐观的 无望的 暗淡的 ； To Polat, life in Oklahoma seemed bleak; he sensed something unhealthy about the ethnic situation.   （ 2021-04-29 Oracle Bones ）
84. timepiece 表 钟 ； Communist authorities gave timepieces like these to troops in the Chinese People's Liberation Army, the statement said.
85. to the best of someone's knowledge  据某人所知 ；  The owner of the watch was not associated with the Chinese armed forces or government "to the best of our knowledge," said Fellows.
86. stainless  没有污点的 无暇的 ；
87. quell 减轻 震慑 平息 ； The stainless steel item had "89.6 In Commemoration of Quelling the Rebellion" inscribed on it and was supposed to be put up for auction on April 19.
88. amnesia  健忘症 ；
89. shortlist  入围名单 ； The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CCCPC) would have also given soldiers medals and a book of photos entitled "Defenders of the Capital," said Louisa Lim, the author of "The People's Republic of Amnesia: Tiananmen Revisited," which was shortlisted for the Orwell Prize in 2015.
90. circulation  循环 流通 传播 流传 ； It is unclear how many are in circulation, Lim added.
91. lead up to sth  是  的先导 是导致  原因； For about a decade leading up to 1989, China's economy had been steadily opening up and allowing small amounts of free enterprise in the Communist country, after years of strict state control under Chairman Mao Zedong.   （ 2021-04-30   CNN）
92. acutely  十分严重的 ； Never in my life had a place been so acutely defined by everything that hadn’t happened there.  在我的经历中，从来没有一个地方如此严格的限制每一件事情，而这些事情从来没有发生过。
93. stretch 连续的 一段时间 ；at a stretch ； It wasn’t unusual for me to be gone for two weeks at a stretch.
94. demolish  拆毁 拆除 （建筑物） ； New districts were constantly springing up throughout the capital, replacing old sections that were demolished one by one.
95. alley  胡同 ；
96. flank  侧面有 两侧有 ； The word originally came from a Mongolian term for “water well,” and it had come to describe alleyways flanked by courtyard homes.
97. moor  使 停泊 ； Finally, after a year of being unmoored, I decided to search for a home with some stability.
98. dodge  闪开 躲开 避开 ； It wasn’t a legal address for foreign journalists, but I figured that I could dodge the cops whenever an anniversary rolled around.
99. rustle  使 发出轻轻的摩擦声 沙沙声 ；
100. scholartree  槐树； Unlike the high-rise sections of the city, there weren’t many echoes in Ju’er, whose sounds were few and distinct: wind rustling in the scholartrees, rain slipping across tile roofs.
101. soya  大豆； 大豆食物； In the mornings, vendors on bicycle carts rode through the alleyways, calling out the names of their products. Beer, vinegar, soy sauce.
102. cardboard  硬纸板 ； Freelance recyclers wheeled through the hutong, looking to purchase Styrofoam or cardboard or old appliances.
103. wig  假发 ； He had come to Beijing from Henan province, where he worked for a factory that exported wigs and hair extensions, mostly to be sold to African-Americans.
104. braid 辫子 辫状物；
105. clipping  剪下物； One woman came out of her home with twin black braids wrapped in a silk handkerchief—her daughter’s clippings, saved from the last haircut.  （ Oracle Bones  2021-05-06 ）