# 英语单词  101-200

1. giggle  
	（因感到有趣 窘迫或紧张而）咯咯地笑 傻笑； 
	> She giggled nervously on the phone.
2. barb  
	倒钩 毛刺； 
	> SHENZHEN WAS THE only place in China with a modern city wall. It was about ten feet high, and made of chain link; some sections were topped by barbed wire.
3. spontaneously  
	自发的；  
	> In February of 1997, when Deng died, thousands of Shenzhen residents spontaneously gathered at the billboard to make offerings of flowers, written verses, and other memorials.  
	
	> "Our goal is to raise awareness about the state of public opinion in China, whether it is purely the result of spontaneous interactions (or) the result of government censorship," the administrator said.
4. benevolent  
	仁慈 和蔼； 
	> but Shenzhen’s origins had the flavor of myth—the miraculous birth, the benevolent god.
5. designate  
	指派 委派； 
	> The Communists feared political and economic contamination from the capitalist British colony, and they designated the Shenzhen region as a “political defense frontier.”
6. petri dish  
	培养皿； 
	> They viewed the city as an experiment, and like a good petri dish,
7. auction  
	拍卖； 
	> the city held New China’s first public auction for the right to use a piece of land.
8. reassure  
	使 安心 打消疑虑； 
	> and the wall provided a reassuring sense of control—a physical demarcation that showed where the experimental city began.
9. demarcation  
	划定界限；
10. patronage  
	互惠互利  惠顾 光顾   
	> But they sensed the uncertainty, and they tended to describe their city’s development as the result of a powerful man’s patronage rather than as the natural product of free-market economics
11. delineate  
	勾勒 描绘 
	> Despite the leaders’ attempts to define and delineate their experiment, certain aspects of Shenzhen developed in their own way.
12. squalid  
	（因贫穷）肮脏的  
	> Satellite towns sprang up beyond the fence, most of them squalid and unplanned.
13. fledged  
	羽翼丰满的 
	> the company added a production division, becoming a full-fledged factory,
14. pewter  
	锡 锡制品
15. bead 
	（有孔的）珠子
16. lacquer  
	漆
17. ziplock  
	拉锁   
	> The factory produced pewter, brass, and low-grade silver jewelry, as well as cheap plastic beads that were painted and lacquered, packaged in ziplock bags, and exported to Hong Kong
18. affection  爱情  “There are many troubles about affections,” “Some people say there is no real love in Shenzhen.
19. maim  使残废 使重伤  Seeing the maimed workers around the plant made him feel uncomfortable.
20. gait  步态 步调  She liked the way he walked—there was confidence in his gait.
21. stingy  小气 吝啬  
22. lecherous  好色的 they often used the same two words that many workers in Shenzhen used to describe Taiwanese owners: stingy and lecherous.
23. whim  异想天开 怪念头 Curfew was eleven or twelve o’clock at night, depending on the boss’s whim.
24. warehouse  仓库 It was a “three-in-one” factory—production, warehousing, and living quarters were combined into one structure.
25. flammable  易燃的；they knew that some of the production material stored on the ground floor was extremely flammable.
26. lush  茂密的 繁密的 I liked watching the dry northern plains give way to the lushness of the south.
27. briskly  轻快的  she was the guide now, steering me briskly through town to another bus stop,
28. vicious  恶毒的 邪恶的  The pack was vicious and to them a foreigner was like a chunk of raw meat dropped bleeding onto the road.

	1. While the 24-year-old has received an outpouring of support for her decision, she has also been viciously attacked by trolls.
29. wrest  夺取 抢夺 One display featured a foreign warship manned by wax foreign devils who were using military force to wrest Hong Kong from China.
30. entangle  使 纠缠 使 套住； Adam became entangled in Living History,

	1. During such an important year, the Chinese government will be wary of becoming entangled in Western sanctions, which could be a blow to its economy
31. startle  吃惊  
32. bowel  肠子 内脏  and a number of Chinese tourists were startled to see a flesh-and-blood foreign devil jump out from within the bowels of the warship.  
33. tease  挑逗 取笑 打趣  Emily had always appreciated her foreign teachers’ sense of humor, and she generally liked it when we teased her.
34. safari   长途旅行 观赏野兽的旅行  the Safari Park  野生动物园
35. intimation  暗示  I had a strong intimation that regardless we were going to see yuppie Chinese entertainment at its worst.
36. yuppie  雅皮士 （城市收入高 生活优越的年轻专业人员） I had a strong intimation that regardless we were going to see yuppie Chinese entertainment at its worst.
37. celery  芹菜  Tourists fed the animals a lot of things—carrots, nuts, celery
38. snack  小吃 （snake 蛇；曲折前行；） after the snacks were gone, they fed them the paper bags in which they had been packaged.
39. hawk  兜售 叫卖  salespeople hawked one-yuan bags of food.
40. stagger 摇摇晃晃走
41. glassy  像玻璃一样的 光滑透亮的 无表情的 呆滞的
42. bloat  使 肿胀   And the deer, like every other animal in the park, staggered around looking glassy-eyed and bloated.
43. cock  竖起  翘起；公鸡；
44. grin  露齿而笑  “Don’t you want to see what happens if we don’t feed them?” I said, and then she cocked her head and grinned.
45. snatch  一把夺过
46. purse  （女士）钱包 皮夹子
47. triumphant  大获全胜的  Sure enough, one of the monkeys tried to snatch Emily’s purse, and I had to hold tightly onto my baseball cap. The salesman gave us a triumphant look as we left.
48. cram  填满 塞满  He was crammed into a tiny cage
49. second-to-last  倒数第二  The second-to-last duck had just been thrown in and the crocodiles were still tearing at the pieces.
50. scrutiny  仔细检查 认真彻底的审查； Chinese President Xi Jinping called on the country's regulators this week to step up their crackdown on tech companies and extend scrutiny to all areas of financial activity.
51. grapple  扭打 努力设法解决    big tech firms like Alibaba and its financial affiliate Ant Group, which have already been grappling with increased scrutiny.
52. shelve  搁置 停止
53. overhaul  检查 大修（haul 拉 拖 拽）  Ant，was forced to shelve a big IPO last November and has since been ordered to overhaul its business.
54. rein  缰绳 控制 主宰  Ant, for example, now commands more than half of the mobile payments market in China — and officials have been looking for ways to rein them in.
55. curb   控制 抑制 约束（犹指不好的事物） Regulators may soon require Ant to behave more like a traditional Chinese bank than a tech company, suggesting strict curbs on its business.
56. tumble  使 跌倒 摔倒 ；（humble 贬低 使感到 卑微） Tencent stock has also tumbled recently on rumors that it might be the next target for regulators.
57. allege  指控 声称  
58. acquisition  收购的公司 购置物   Regulators have already questioned executives at Tencent and Pinduoduo, punished Bytedance and Baidu with fines for alleged monopolistic behaviors in corporate acquisitions
59. swan  天鹅
60. defecate  大便 拉屎
61. waddle  蹒跚行走 摇摆的行走 A young woman wearing a swan costume led a line of trained swans that defecated as they waddled down the stadium’s dirt track.
62. ostrich  鸵鸟
63. jockey  骑手
64. sprint  短距离快速奔跑 冲刺  One ostrich threw his jockey; the man sprinted away, chased by the furious bird, and the crowd cheered.
65. culminate  以某种结果告终 结束 达到高潮   The entertainment culminated with a bear parade.
66. hind （四足动物的腿 蹄）后面的   bears staggering（摇摇晃晃的走，踉跄） drunkenly on their hind legs.
67. vow  誓言  
68. nudge  轻推   There was a short ceremony during which the bears rose on their hind legs, to make their vows, and then the trainer nudged them into the float’s bridal chamber.
69. whip  鞭子
70. numb  麻木的  
71. cleanse  洁净 洗涤；  The animal park had left me numb, and the visit to the billboard felt like a cleansing ritual—absolution（赦罪 赦免） for our trip within the gates. It was a hazy afternoon, and I photographed Emily.
72. somber  阴沉 阴郁的 严肃的； In the Chinese way, she didn’t smile, striking a somber pose with the Great Leader’s image in the background.
73. glisten  闪亮 ； the glistening blue-green glass of the Stock Exchange,
74. smokestack  烟囱 烟筒；
75. sprout  发芽 萌芽 dormitories surrounded by fences, smokestacks sprouting in dirty clumps.
76. weed  杂草 ； New sidewalks were already overrun by patches of weeds,
77. stain  弄脏 污点  玷污； unfinished apartment blocks had been so cheaply constructed that their walls immediately became stained and cracked.
78. alternator  交流电发电机；
79. monotony  单调的
80. brutal  野蛮 无人道的 ； The monotony of the factory towns was brutal in daylight, and the streets seemed abandoned during working hours.
81. flirte  调情 ； I watched them walk past on the sidewalk, talking, laughing, flirting.
82. regale  （通过讲故事或说笑话）使愉悦 使高兴 ； During dinner, Emily regaled me with stories about the factory owners.
83. leer  邪恶的看 色迷迷的看 ； Emily’s own boss was always leering at the young women in his factory,
84. scoff  讥讽 嘲笑； “All of them have failed somewhere else,” she scoffed, explaining that her boss’s old company in Taiwan had gone bankrupt years ago.
85. creek  溪
86. sluggish  缓慢的  Below the road, a creek flowed sluggishly in the shadows.

	1. Sluggish domestic demand, meanwhile, has vexed （使 恼火） the country for much of the year. 
87. curb  路边 ； 动词是 抑制 控制 缰绳；
88. venereal  性交的  Neighborhood buildings were covered with bold-faced flyers advertising private venereal disease clinics;
89. thermos  热水瓶  ；  Apart from a thermos and a few books, he didn’t have many possessions.
90. acne  粉刺 痤疮 ； Once, she had bluntly told me that he wasn’t handsome, and this was true—acne had badly scarred his face.
91. hoist  提升 太高  ； Parents hoisted children onto their shoulders so they could see better.
92. hassle  烦扰 麻烦 ； He had heard rumors that the police would be hassling Uighurs,
93. cloud-seeding  人工降雨； In Beijing, the government commanded the temporary closing of factories, to cut down on pollution, and they sent up cloud-seeding planes right before the anniversary.
94. hitch  勾住 拴住 ； the parade proceeded without a hitch.
95. anthem  国歌 圣歌 ； They played the national anthem instead of “Ave Maria.”
96. loafer  平底便鞋 ； One of the parents ran a shoe factory, and he gave Willy a new pair of leather loafers.
97. mirage  海市蜃楼 ； After the low green hills and the rows of apartment blocks, the Shenzhen downtown appeared like a mirage:
98. whisk  匆匆带走 迅速送走 ； Glass elevators whisked us up;
99. congestion  塞车 拥塞 ；
100. haphazard  无计划的 混乱的 ；In other big Chinese cities, the congestion seemed more impressive the higher you went, until at last you gazed over a jumbled sea of concrete: so many buildings, so many years of haphazard development.

	1. "The main body of the large Russian column advancing on Kyiv remains over 30 km from the center of the city, having been delayed by staunch Ukrainian resistance, mechanical breakdown and congestion. The column has made little discernible progress in over three days," the UK statement said.
101. sprinkle  洒 泼 ； generous patches of green were sprinkled throughout downtown.
102. despise  鄙视 蔑视 看不起 ；
103. tentative  实验性的 ；不确定的；犹豫不决的； Christopher Patten, who had been despised by the Communist government for instituting tentative democratic reforms in the final years of British rule.

	1. Haji's English has become tentative since CNN first met him 10 years ago, during an embed with the US Marine Corps in Afghanistan. But his message cuts through the telephone static loud and clear （ CNN）
