# 英语单词  201-300

1. brochure  
	小册子 宣传册 ； 
	> I wrote summaries of panel discussions, to be used in brochures.
2. stipend  
	津贴 薪俸 ； 
	> Every organization had its own rules and regulations, stipends and payments.
3. prestigious  
	声望很高的 ； 
	> Of all these publications, the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times were the most prestigious,
4. porcelain  
	瓷器 ； 
	> The Chinese were the first to produce paper, printed books, gunpowder, porcelain, cast iron, silk, and the magnetic compass.
5. faint  
	晕倒 昏厥； 微弱的 幽暗的 ；
6. prone  
	俯卧的 ； 
	> like a person who suddenly faints and feels as if he is watching his body prone on the floor.
7. accreditation  
	达到标准 证明合格 ； 
	> Also, it was technically illegal—the People’s Republic forbade any journalist from working without official accreditation.
8. odds  
	可能性 概率 ； 
	> The odds of trouble weren’t high, but occasionally something happened.
9. bootleg  
	盗版 ； 
	> Xinjiekou had good bootleg CD and DVD shops.
10. bogus  
	虚假的 ； 
	> The subway stop at Qianmen was known for its dealers of bogus receipts;
11. mutter  
	嘀咕 ； 
	> The dealers hung around the subway exit, muttering, fapiao, fapiao, fapiao.
12. shady  
	阴凉的 行为可疑的 ； 
	> The men looked shady, with shifty eyes and hands jammed into their pockets   （2021-03-25 Oracle Bones）
13. smuggle  
	走私 
	> The market at Yuting Qiao was devoted entirely to unofficial electronics—used goods, display models, test units, smuggled sets, factory leaks, fakes, jiade.
14. warranty  
	保修单 ； 
	> Every product came with a tale that was intended to soothe suspicions: a narrative warranty.
15. stereos  
	立体声音箱 ； 
	> I wandered through the market and talked to a man who sold Taiwanese-made Panasonic stereos;
16. dent  
	凹痕 ；
17. scuff  
	擦伤 ； 
	> the only reason they had been rejected was because of minor dents and scuff marks.
18. peddle  
	兜售 叫卖 ； 
	> I felt a sense of brotherhood with anybody who peddled stories.
19. Buddhist charms  
	佛教护身符 ；
20. handmade inner soles for shoes  
	鞋垫；
21. pamphlet  
	小册子 ； 
	> A crowd had gathered around one man who sold pamphlets.
22. tempo  
	速度  拍子 ； 
	> The key was tempo: never too fast, never too desperate.
23. rehearse  
	排练 ； 
	> it didn’t feel over-rehearsed or mechanical.       （2021-03-26 Oracle Bones）
24. haul  
	用力拉 拖 拽；强迫某人去某处 ；
25. confiscate  
	没收 征用 ； 
	> In a politically charged city like Beijing, the salesman might have been kicked out or hauled to a police station, his goods confiscated.
26. conspiracy  
	阴谋 ； 
	> They dealt in rumors, myths, folktales, conspiracy theories—that little voice in people’s heads.
27. stewardess  
	空姐  ； 
	> There were scandals: “The 500 Airline Stewardesses Who Became Pregnant.”
28. nipple   
	乳头 ； 
	> If a pregnant woman’s right nipple is darker than the left, she’s going to have a boy.
29. puppet  
	木偶 傀儡 ； 
	> Manchukuo, the puppet state established by the Japanese during their invasion of China.
30. starch  
	淀粉 ；
31. versatile  
	多才多艺的 ； 
	> “There are few raw materials as versatile as starch.”
32. jumpsuit  
	连身裤 ；
33. tan 
	黄褐色 ； 
	> Workers wore tan jumpsuits with Communist-style red stars on the chest.  （ 2021-03-29 Oracle Bones）
34. refine  
	提炼 ；
35. beet 
	甜菜 ； 
	> and its purpose originally had been to research the refining of sugar from beets.
36. MSG 
	味精 ；
37. sweetener 
	糖精； 
	> In China, 40 percent of the cornstarch was used to make MSG, whereas in the United States, 60 percent of the cornstarch was used to make artificial sweeteners.
38. mesmerize  
	着迷 催眠 ； 
	> Like many photographers, he was often mesmerized by the way the world appeared through a one-inch viewfinder.
39. plummet  
	暴跌 垂直下落 ； 
	> and now the price had plummeted to eighty-five dollars.
40. lull 
	（活动间的）平静时期 间歇 ； 
	> There was a lull, and I tried to think of a new propaganda question.
41. buffet  
	便餐桌 餐具柜 ； 
	> but he was too shy to take food from the buffet.I kept inviting him to eat, but he only shook his head and giggled. He liked that shake, though.
42. moisture  
	湿气 湿度 ； 
	> IN NORTHEASTERN CHINA, the composition of corn is between 32 and 38 percent moisture.
43. vignette  
	短文 插图 简介 ； 
	> Like Mr. Guo, and like many other middle-aged and older intellectuals whom I met in China, Mr. Wang didn’t perceive his career as a narrative. Instead, it consisted of a series of mostly unrelated vignettes. （2021-03-30 ， Oracle Bones）
44. feud  
	世仇 争执； 
	> I considered telling Mark about the blood feud with Yellow Dragon, but it was too complicated.
45. off-guard  
	措手不及 ； 
	> For an instant I was caught off-guard, and then I answered:

	> Watching from Beijing, Xi was caught off-guard that his own intelligence had not been able to predict what happened, even though the United States had been warning of an invasion for weeks, the officials said.
46. calligraphy  
	书法；
47. lousy  
	糟糕的  ； 
	> All across China, Li Peng was famous for having lousy calligraphy.
48. evaporate  
	蒸发  破灭； 
	> Mr. Wang wanted Mr. Xu to be photographed with the calligraphy in the background. Mark saw his cover shot evaporating.
49. chuckle  
	低声轻笑 ； 
	> Mr. Xu was barely over five feet tall and he wore a gray checked suit. He chuckled proudly while the picture was taken.
50. municipal   
	市政的 ； 
	> He gave me his card, which listed his two main positions: vice-secretary-general of the Municipal People’s Government of Changchun, and general director of the Changchun Corn Industry Development Zone.
51. beam  
	眉开眼笑 ； 
	>　As long as I put my signature on the applications, the other departments will also approve.   Mr. Xu beamed after giving this explanation.
52. expound  
	详述 详解 ； 
	> He expounded on how much easier it was now that he could give official approval for the business projects.

	> Following the latest controversy, the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) issued a statement Thursday expounding on Hashimoto's score, including a detailed list of the imperfections. （CNN）
53. stuff  
	填充 ； 
	> The article was one thousand words long, and I stuffed it with as many statistics as possible. （ 2021-03-31 Oracle Bones）
54. withhold  
	扣压 保留 ； 
	> 14 countries and WHO chief accuse China of withholding data from pandemic origins investigation
55. vehement 
	强烈的 严辞的； 
	> China has vehemently rejected any criticism or blame related to its handling of the pandemic.
56. rebuke  
	训斥 责怪 非难 ； 
	> The public rebuke from the US and others further highlights the difficulty of conducting transparent and independent scientific research into the origins of the virus
57. concede  
	承认 ；  
	> Speaking in the briefing Tuesday, WHO chief Tedros conceded the international experts faced problems with data access in Wuhan.
58. haunt  
	（长期不断的）骚扰 ；
59. deteriorate  
	恶化 退化 ； 
	> But some analysts warned concerns that have overshadowed the WHO study could haunt future research, especially as relations deteriorate between China and Western countries.
60. hurdle 
	跨栏 难关 障碍 ；
	> "She is a truly outstanding woman, the glory of China, a world famous person. Even women like her would be trapped in a predicament 困境 like this," Lv said. "This shows just how many hurdles Chinese women have to leap over on their pursuit for equality and independence."
61. probe  
	盘问 探究 ； 
	> Huang said he did not expect the investigation to be transparent, WHO to play an independent leadership role, or China to be fully cooperative in the probe as long as a "political hurdle" remained. （  2021-03-31 CNN）
62. waive  
	放弃（权利 要求）  
63. cover charge  
	入场费 最低消费 ； 
	> the VIP card meant that they waived the cover charge.
64. loom  
	赫然耸现 犹指令人惊恐的隐现 ；  
	> Everybody who entered the club passed beneath an enormous statue of King Kong that loomed above the doorway.
65. paraphernalia  
	装备 大量用品 ； 
	> Fake movie paraphernalia was displayed in glass cases,
66. encase  
	把。。装箱 围住 包住 ； 
	> Just inside the door, encased in a huge glass tube, was a life-size statue of Arnold Schwarzenegger dressed as the Terminator.
67. knockoff   
	仿制品 ； 
	> In a neighborhood of knockoffs, Hollywood was the biggest fake of them all.
68. subdue  
	征服 制服 ； 
	> But the presence of all those white women in Hollywood left them subdued.

	> 抑制，克制； The Labor Day holiday, which begins on Saturday this year, has traditionally been a time for mass travel in China. But it is likely to be much more subdued this year.
69. fiddle 
	（尤指厌烦或紧张）不断摸弄 不停摆弄 ； 
	> The Chinese men stayed in packs, talking in low voices, fiddling with their phones.
70. peroxide 
	过氧化物；
71. blonde 
	金黄色的 头发 金黄色的；
72. fidget 
	坐立不安 烦躁 ； 
	> Whenever a peroxide blonde walked past, the fidgeting increased.
73. voyeur  
	窥阴癖者 （喜欢偷窥他人裸体或性交） 刺探隐秘者 ； 
	> voyeurism.  And then I’d glance at my own phone, or turn back to the conversation with Polat, suddenly conscious of my voyeurism.   （  2021-04-01 Oracle Bones）
74. reef  
	礁 ； 
	> Philippines says illegal structures found on reefs near where Chinese boats gathered
75. spell 
	一段时间；（拼写） ； 
	> For a spell, he was interested in Canada, because somebody told him that immigration was easy in Quebec,
76. incarnate  
	人体化的 化身的； 
	> In China, people who had never been to America tended to take extreme views, and often both sides were equally inaccurate. I met many Chinese who believed that America was evil incarnate, but I also met others who had complete faith in the wealth, opportunity, and freedom of the United States.
77. ingrained  
	根深蒂固的 日久难改的；
	> certain concepts about America had become so deeply ingrained that people would do almost anything to emigrate.
78. asylum  
	（政治）庇护 避难； 
	> Invariably, such immigrants claimed political asylum, although in fact most had left for economic reasons.
79. indenture 
	（旧时）师徒契约；  
80. sweatshop 
	血汗工厂 ； 
	> usually the emigrants’ debt ensured that they would spend years as indentured servants in Chinatown restaurants or sweatshops.
81. remit 
	汇款  ；
82. mansion  
	大厦 豪宅 ； 
	> They remitted money to family members back in Fujian, who built enormous mansions in the villages.
83. tile 
	瓦；
	> Usually they were faced with white tile, and often they had big glass windows in the shade of green that was so common in modern Chinese construction.
84. peg  
	用夹子夹住 用楔子钉住； 
	> The Chinese government wanted to maintain control over the economy, ensuring some stability during the transition years, and so they kept their nonconvertible currency pegged to the American dollar （ 用词很精准，在 美元之上，用钉子钉住，保持一个不变的汇率； 复习时 将peg理解成“使 远离”，错矣。 ） （ 2021-04-02 Oracle Bones ）
85. bemused  
	困惑的 茫然的 ； 
	> He spoke about his deals with bemusement, as if they had been conducted by a person he hardly knew.
86. pragmatic  
	务实的 ； 
	> His life was sharply divided between the pragmatic and the idealistic.
87. fabulous  
	极好的 绝妙的； 
	> He watched the Godfather movies over and over—even in a supporting role, De Ni Luo was fabulous.
88. snobbish  
	势利的 自命不凡的； 
	> The small-mindedness of business truly bothered him, and he could be remarkably snobbish about other Uighur traders.
89. subsidy   
	补贴 津贴 ；
90. amenable  
	服从的 顺服的； 
	> Uighur peasants, who sometimes benefited from government-funded infrastructure and farming subsidies, could be passive or even amenable to Chinese rule.
91. complicity  
	共谋 勾结 ； 
	> But many intellectuals fiercely opposed Beijing’s control, and often they were bitter at what they perceived as the complicity of less-educated Uighurs.
92. orthodoxy  
	正统观念 普遍接受的观念 ； 
	> And the opposite intellectual extreme—the point where idealism and faith reached orthodoxy—was equally threatening.
93. disdain  
	鄙视 蔑视 不屑一顾 ； 
	> As much as he hated the trader’s small-mindedness, Polat was even more disdainful of people who, in his opinion, were obsessed with ideas.
94. relentless  
	不停的 持续强烈的 ； 
	> In Yabaolu, he was relentlessly critical of two groups.
95. cut a deal  
	达成协议 ； 
	> None of the middlemen I knew had ever cut a deal with them; the Afghans didn’t come to Yabaolu to buy Tommy Hilfiger or North Face.
96. curl  
	卷  撇嘴 ； 
	> Whenever they walked past, Polat curled his lip in disgust.   （ 2021-04-06 Oracle Bones ）
97. devout   
	虔诚的 ；  
	> In the past, the ethnic group hadn’t been particularly devout, but that had also changed since Reform and Opening.
98. defuse  
	缓和 平息； 拆除炸弹的引信；
	> The government hoped that religious growth would defuse unrest, but they were surprised by a series of protests in 1985.
99. uprising  
	起义 暴乱 暴动
100. clamp  
	用夹具夹紧 夹住 固定 ； clamp down 严厉打击（犯罪等） 
		> After 1985, the government abruptly changed its strategy, responding to Uighur uprisings by clamping down on religious activities.
101. fundamentalism   
	原教旨主义； 
		> And to Uighur intellectuals such as Polat, the rise of Islamic fundamentalism was almost as threatening as Maoism.
102. amiss  
	不对 不正常； 
		> There was only one subtle sign that something was amiss—much of the conversation was in Chinese. I knew that these men didn’t like speaking that language together, and I was touched that they would go out of their way to make me feel included.
103. banquet  
	宴会 晚宴 ；
104. toast  
	烤面包 祝酒； 
		> At the end of dinner, Polat stood up and slowly walked around the banquet, toasting the others one by one. On that night, at that table, in the heart of Yabaolu, it seemed as if he were at the center of the world.
105. sweep  
	清扫 ；
106. prelude  
	序幕； 
		> Often, the Beijing police made neighborhood sweeps in the prelude to some mark in the calendar.
107. convocation  
	召集 集会 ； 
		> It might be an anniversary of June Fourth, or the birthday of the People’s Republic, or a convocation of the National People’s Congress.
108. lie low  
	尽量不引起注意 不露面 不露声色； 
		> Polat always tried to lay low if an important date was coming up.  （  2021-04-07 Oracle Bones）
